# Final Arduino Project
This repository contain the final project of ESEO first year. Our project is a copy of Pacman who run on Arduino. Using TFT screen.

## Code structure
- The Game work using determinist control system; it's write using mix of C++ and C.
- `main.ino`   : Entry point of the code.
- `types.hpp`  : Store all global types and definitions such as `GameState`.
- `game.hpp`   : All the game logic.
- `ghost.hpp`  : Ghost specific logic.
- `inputs.hpp` : Handle inputs transmissions to the Arduino.
- `screen.hpp` : Handle the screen communication and debug output.
- `levels.hpp` : Levels definitions automatically generated by [editor.py](./editor.py)

## How to use ?
1. Copy the repo `git clone https://github.com/ArcadeCode/Arduino_final_project_2026.git`
2. Open arduino_final_project/main/main.ino in Arduino IDE.
3. Plug the joystick, buttons and the screen to the screen.
4. Upload to your Arduino and enjoy !

### Pin layout
- Select button : A0
- Start button : A1
- Joystick X-axis : A2
- Joystick Y-axis : A3

## Python editor
To generate levels, we use a custom editor, we are completely aware of the use of Claude AI for the development of the editor, this script isn't the main project of our final project, it's basically just a painter app for levels to not wrote each level matrix by hand. The editor can export a complete `levels.hpp` file.

### How to run
```
python ./editor.py
```

## Limitations
The project didn't successfully end with all the features we wanted to implement, here is a list of the missing features:
- Sound engine using interruptions flags.
- TFT Screen implementation.
- Select btn to choose the level.
- Game start menu, Levels selection menu, Game over screen.

## License
Copyright 2026 Dervaux Esteban

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.